# Research memo: Deeper and Deeper - Wikipedia

Deeper and Deeper - Wikipedia Jump to content From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 1992 single by Madonna This article is about the song by Madonna. For other uses, see Deeper and Deeper (disambiguation) . \n* [[Dance-pop]]\n* [[deep house]]"} },"i":0}}]}'> "Deeper and Deeper" Single by Madonna from the album Erotica Released November 17, 1992 ( 1992-11-17 ) Studio Soundworks ( New York ) Genre Dance-pop deep house Length 5 : 33 Label Maverick Sire Warner Bros. Songwriters Madonna Shep Pettibone Anthony Shimkin Producers Madonna Shep Pettibone Madonna singles chronology " Erotica " (1992) " Deeper and Deeper " (1992) " Bad Girl " (1993) Music video "Deeper and Deeper" on YouTube " Deeper and Deeper " is a song by American singer Madonna from her fifth studio album, Erotica (1992). It was written by Madonna, Shep Pettibone , and Anthony Shimkin and was produced by Madonna and Pettibone. In Australia and most European countries, the song was released as the album's second single on November 17, 1992; in the United States, a release was issued on December 8. It was included on Madonna's second greatest hits compilation , GHV2 (2001). A dance-pop and deep house song, it has disco and Philadelphia soul influences; the bridge features instrumentation from flamenco guitars and castanets and features background vocals from the singer's collaborators Donna De Lory and Niki Haris . Lyrically, the song talks about sexual desire , though it has been argued that it is actually about a young man coming to terms with his homosexuality . It includes a reference to Madonna's single " Vogue " (1990). Upon release, the song received positive reviews from music critics . They often praised the singer for returning to a more dance-oriented nature in comparison to her previous single " Erotica ", and singled out the "Vogue" sample. In retrospective reviews, it is now considered one of Madonna's best singles. The song also was commercially successful, peaking at number seven on the US Billboard Hot 100 and reaching the top 10 in several other countries, including Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom, while peaking at number one in Italy. The accompanying music video was directed by Bobby Woods. It was seen as a homage to American artist Andy Warhol and Italian director Luchino Visconti , with Madonna playing a character based on Edie Sedgwick , who goes out to a nightclub to meet her friends and boyfriend. The clip received generally mixe

(read from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deeper_and_Deeper)

---
source: fetch_and_read
