# Research memo: Don't you mean extinct?

Don't you mean extinct? Fabien Sanglard - WEBSITE Jul 10, 2026 Don't you mean extinct? In 1993, Jurassic Park came out and revolutionized the use of CGI in films [1] . To the public the experience was magic. But for some of the people in the movie industry, it was a rude awakening. Director Steven Spielberg had hired stop-motion master [2] Phil Tippett [3] to bring the film's full-body dinosaurs to life using his go-motion technique. Spielberg was highly skeptical that computer-generated imagery (CGI) could realistically depict a dinosaur [4] . But Dennis Muren and the digital artists at Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) worked on a proof-of-concept using CGI. They rendered a fully textured, photorealistic T. rex chasing a herd of Gallimimus in full sunlight. I went down with [visual effects supervisor] Dennis Muren when he presented the T-Rex test to Steven and Steven went, ‘Wow, that’s what we’re going to do,’ and he asked me how I would feel and I said, ‘I feel extinct’ [5] . I did seem like everything that I had built up until that time was like, "We are not going to do that anymore" [6] . Phil Tippett Tippett, who had already selected a crew of thirty and was gearing up for the massive go-motion assignment, was understandably devastated by the turn of events. The Making of Jurassic Park I have been thinking of this anecdote a lot lately. I see a lot of pessimism [7] around programmers. The anxiety of becoming obsolete is particularly palpable online [8] [9] . Evolve The best way to avoid becoming extinct is to evolve. I liked zkmon's take from Hacker News . Ride the wave. You rode it when websites/webapps were the wave. I came into software industry before internet, kept changing my horse. You are never too old to learn new tricks. The new wave create new kind of work and workers. Be one of them. Ride the beast, master the tools. It's the same game again. zkmon (Hacke Nnews) While the current episode reminds zkmon of the mid-90s web, it makes me think of the field of Computer Graphics in the early 2000s and the rise of "Mobile First" in early 2010s. Every generation of programmers will likely have seen a form of r-evolution. This is indeed the same game again . Life is flux [10] . LLMs are yet another tool. To evolve is to invest the time to learn how it works and how to best use it. Learn how LLMs work The best resource I found to learn how LLMs work is Andrej Karpathy's channel . The man obviously cares deeply about LLMs and really wants you to get them. His series of videos so far is 25 hours of pure gold. A nice follow-up is the book Build a Large Language Model (From Scratch) by Sebastian Raschka. There are many drawings in full-color with rare Now Draw the Owl moments. This is a really good book. Learn how to write code with LLMs Writing every line by hand is no longer the norm. Those who refuse to use an LLM will fall behind because they won't be able to produce as much - and I know several developers who refuse to use agents. John Carma

(read from: https://fabiensanglard.net/extinct/index.html)

---
source: fetch_and_read
